I am so pleased I had a role in drafting this remarkable document. It embodies the values we hold dear as Democrats and as Americans, and it sets forth our great president's vision for our future where together we will reignite the American Dream for all. Because the reality is: Four years ago, the American Dream had slipped out of reach for too many, and it had turned into a nightmare for millions. President Obama changed our course. He invested in our future and put men and women back to work rebuilding our roads and bridges. He raised educational standards, invested in early childhood education, and worked to make higher education more affordable for everyone. He invested in clean energy and enacted the broadest tax cut in history, reducing taxes on the middle class to near-historic lows. He saved the American auto industry. He produced historic health reform. And he put forward a balanced deficit reduction plan that will put us on sound fiscal footing. Today, our economy is growing again. Our platform states that America faces a clear choice: move forward as a nation where everyone has the chance to get ahead, or go back to the same failed ideas that created the crisis in the first place. We will move forward, not backward. Republicans will raise taxes on low-income and the middle class to pay for tax breaks for millionaires and billionaires. They'll end the fundamental guarantee of Medicare that people have earned. They'll let Wall Street write its own rules again. They'll allow the secret and unlimited special interest money in campaigns to advance its dangerous assault on our democracy. They'll shred the safety net and gut vital investments in education, innovation and infrastructure in order to help the wealthiest avoid doing their fair share. And they'll allow insurance companies to once again deny health care to working families and interfere with women's health care decisions. President Obama and Democrats will not let this happen. We will move forward, not backward. We believe we are bound together by a shared set of ideals and values rooted in the notion that together we can overcome the greatest challenges that come our way. We stand for an economy that's built not from the top down but from the middle out and that provides opportunity for those aspiring to join the middle class. And we make ending poverty a national priority. We are a big tent party of inclusion, and our platform speaks to the aspirations of all. Our platform ensures that the opportunity to live the American Dream not only survives but thrives for generations to come. We can't afford to go back or abandon the change we've fought so hard for. We will not turn back the clock. We can move forward. We must move forward. And under the leadership of President Obama, we will move forward. Thank you. 
 We finally, after 16 days, at the last hours, were able to get to some agreement that is really very short-lived. The continuing resolution only lasts 'til the middle of January-on Martin Luther King's birthday, ironically-and the debt ceiling expires on February 7th. So, this is merely kicking the can down the road, as they say. I think it's important, but I'm still trying to rationalize how the non-tea-party Republicans in the House can let the tea-party-oriented members in their caucus control everything. And it's really kind of disappointing, because you can't negotiate whether-over a dispute over one measure, which creates healthcare for millions of Americans that can't afford it, that we would close down the funding of the entire government. This is a tactic that is so obviously out of place and makes the legislative process literally unworkable. And so it's my hope that we can figure out a way to get this rolling again. Speaker Boehner is in an incredible position, and his legacy is going to be determined by whether he continues to cave in to the ultra-conservatives in his caucus or not. To his credit, it seemed to me that he wanted to be more cooperative, but he was afraid of even being dismissed from the speakership. I think he's over that kind of a hump, but it's at a cost of $24 billion, 800,000 people out of work. And then the government, after we signed it late last night, they say, "All government workers, please come to work the very next day." 
 No, no, not at all. And, you know, the president has been stable, and he and Majority Leader Reid, they set a good example for us. And I think that he's got to really create a legacy that has a lot more to do with putting everybody back to work. The recession is not over yet. The recovery is slow. Unemployment is still way too high. And there's so much more that we could do. And to think that you would have so many members, 144 in the House and 18 in the Senate, who would say, "Well, there's nothing wrong with shutting down the whole government, not raising the debt ceiling, and really hurting the credit rating of the largest, most powerful country in civilization." And it's just unimaginable, the actions that they would turn to to get their way on a very small and modest bill, "Obamacare." We're talking about universal healthcare for everybody, single-payer. That's what the new direction is. And yet, this kind of "everything or nothing, and we're going to get our way on any bill," that kind of an attitude destroys, really, or compromises the democratic legislative process- 
 I rise to strongly oppose HR 1062.  This bill places significant additional requirements for economic analysis by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), effectively bringing any efforts at rulemaking to a standstill.  Let's be clear: the purpose of this legislative effort is to stop implementation of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protect Act dead in its tracks.  After losing in Congress, the fight against the Dodd-Frank Act moved to the courts, beginning with overturning the proxy access rules they adopted under authority provided by that Act.  Although I agreed fully with the SEC's position, a court found that the SEC did not meet its already significant requirements to conduct an economic analysis. After the proxy access case was overturned, the SEC adopted improved standards for conducting cost-benefit analyses.  These procedures were cited by the GAO last December as having all the elements of good regulatory analysis. Basically what the GAO is saying, we took a look we studied it and they do a good job. Nonetheless, the bill before us today adds even more requirements, tying up SEC resources and putting it at even greater risk of litigation for every rule.  Despite the assurances of my Republican colleagues that they are only applying the terms of an executive order to the SEC, that executive order explicitly protects agencies from lawsuits based on their economic analysis. HR 1062 has no such protection for the SEC. The Commission is undertaking a valiant effort to finish the Dodd-Frank and JOBS Act rules, even in the face of attempts by the majority to restrict their funding.  As the SEC attempts to balance capital formation with the need to protect investors, this bill weights the scales heavily in favor of industry over investors.  In fact, the words "investor protection" do not appear anywhere in this bill.  Even without this bill, we can count on industry lobbyists to sue the SEC any time it sees a weakness in the justification supporting a rule, as they have in several other cases currently before the courts. And this bill does not apply only to new rules.  This is extraordinary, and I want to say this so everybody understands. This bill would require the Commission to review every rulemaking ever issued - even those that have protected our securities markets since the Great Depression - one year after the adoption of this bill, and every 5 years thereafter.  As a result, the Commission will be forced to divert resources away from other key areas, such as enforcement.  This comes at a time when House Republicans want to hold SEC funding flat, despite the SEC's new responsibilities, the increase in the number of participants it oversees, and the growth of complexity and size of US securities markets.  It is ironic that, as House Republicans push this bill forward, they also are calling for the SEC to speed up its efforts on JOBS Act rules.  This bill makes it impossible for the SEC to meet the very deadline we adopted just two days ago when we passed HR 701. I urge my colleagues to oppose HR 1062. 
 Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, and I thank Mr. Van Hollen for yielding me time. Today I rise in strong opposition to the Republicans' budget, a budget that makes absurd claims to reducing the deficit by repealing crucial government authority to protect our economy. Lest we forget that Lehman Brothers' disorderly bankruptcy sparked the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. Should a megabank fail in the future, the Dodd-Frank Act specifically authorizes regulators to dissolve the failing firm, fire its executives, wipe out shareholders and deny the claims of creditors. The gentleman from Wisconsin calls this a bailout, erroneously, concluding that the Dodd-Frank Act enshrines "Too Big to Fail" when in fact it provides all the necessary tools to end it. If Dodd-Frank actually did what the Republicans say, why does no large firm want to be designated as "Systemically Significant?" The Republican proposal also deceptively suggests that a repeal of the liquidation authority generates real savings to the American taxpayer. The Dodd-Frank legislation designed this authority to pay for itself over time, with any initial upfront costs being completely recouped by selling assets and imposing an assessment after the resolution on financial institutions with more than $50 billion in assets. The law specifically states that taxpayers shall bear no losses from the exercise of any authority under the liquidation title. Once again, the Republican budget is misleading and dishonest. The National Journal has called the Republican proposal a budget gimmick and even The Wall Street Journal dismissed it as mere budget quirks. If the authority to wind down a mega firm is repealed, the American taxpayer will be called on again to bear the risk of another financial crisis like 2008, which the G.A.O. found cost the U.S. economy $13 trillion.  Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues to reject this Republican budget. I yield back the balance of my time. 
 Thank you so very much, Congressman Meeks. I am so proud of the members of this Congress from both sides of the aisle, who have been real advocates, who have been on television, who have been fighting. Members on the opposite side of the aisle have criticized their own leadership for the delay. Ladies and Gentleman, I am from California. I have witnessed earthquake disaster. I have been involved with trying to help with Hurricane Katrina, and making sure that the people who were the victims of Katrina were compensated and were taken care of. This is unconscionable that this has had to take so long. I've watched Congressman Meeks up in Rockaway. I've watched the people who cried, I've watched the people who begged for help, who begged for assistance. This is so late in coming. And so I support this bill today. I am one of the co-authors of the Flood Insurance Reauthorization Bill, along with Ms. Biggert, who reauthorized flood insurance for another five years. Let's put the money in it. Let's do what's right. Let's take care of this disaster. 
 Mr. LEVIN. I yield 2 minutes to the gentlelady from California, Maxine Waters. Ms. WATERS. I thank my friend from Michigan, Congressman Sander Levin, for the time. I rise to oppose this so-called free trade agreement. I find it deeply disturbing that the United States Congress is even considering a free trade agreement with a country that holds the world's record for assassinations of trade unionists and would cause a loss of 55,000 jobs in the United States.  The Congressional Black Caucus has been working hard to create jobs. We've held job fares in five cities in the country. We have been working hard to create jobs because the unemployment rate in this country is unacceptable: 9.1 throughout the country, 11.3 for Latinos, 16 percent for African Americans. We need jobs, not an unfair trade agenda. Additionally, according to Colombia's National Labor School, 51 trade labor unionists were assassinated in 2010. That's more than the rest of the world combined. In addition, 21 unionists survived attempts on their lives, 338 unionists received death threats, 35 were forcibly displaced, 34 were arbitrarily detained, and 7 just disappeared in 2010. Another 23 unionists have been assassinated so far this year, and a total of 2,908 union members have been murdered in Colombia since 1986. And the Colombian Attorney General's Office has not obtained any convictions for these murders for the past 4 years.  The people of Colombia don't need a free trade agreement; they need a government that respects the rights of all of its citizens. Let's vote down this trade agenda and tell the Government of Colombia that there can be no free trade without human rights and human dignity. 
 The wars in Iraq and Afghanistan have left a legacy of pain, both physical and mental, for our servicemen and women and their families. This morning, our nation awoke to the grim details coming out of Fort Hood, Texas.  Yesterday, a troubled veteran opened fire on base leaving four dead and 16 wounded.  The soldier, Army specialist Ivan Lopez, served in Iraq and was seeking treatment for post-traumatic stress, took his own life. As a Naval psychiatrist during the Vietnam War, I saw personally the gruesome toll long, brutal wars have on warriors and their families; the personal trauma they suffer lasts long after combat officially ends. The further removed we become from the major combat operations of the past decade, the more the sacrifices of our warriors threaten to fade from our memory.  But this tragedy at Fort Hood, combined with the unacceptable reality of 22 servicemember suicides a day, illustrates the immense challenge before us: to care for those men and women who went to fight for us. It is now time to recommit ourselves as a nation to the moral obligation we have in providing the long-term care our veterans so deserve.   That commitment begins with Democrats and Republicans working together in Congress to make the issues of servicemember suicides and mental health care for our veterans a top, fierce and urgent priority. 
 Of all of the challenges facing our nation's health-care system, perhaps the most neglected is the gaping hole in our workforce of primary-care physicians. One estimate projects a shortage of 45,000 primary-care doctors by 2020. This bill will go a long way towards addressing that shortage, improving health outcomes, and reducing the nation's health care costs. With the retirement of a generation of physicians, the aging of our population, and the coming entry into the system of some 30 million newly insured thanks to the Affordable Care Act, we do not have enough primary-care doctors to meet the demand, and the problem will continue to worsen without a major initiative to produce new doctors. Thanks to the Affordable Care Act, we are going to get close to universal health coverage in the United States. But universal coverage will not be meaningful if we don't have enough doctors to serve our population. I am optimistic that Congress can demonstrate leadership in restoring our doctor workforce for the next generation. 
 As we begin Women's History Month, we recognize the tremendous progress that our country has made in advancing women's rights as well as highlight the work still to be done.  Investing in access to quality education, healthcare, and economic empowerment of women and girls are critical to our national security.  Yet discrimination against women's basic rights have come under acute attack in recent years -- particularly the right to access contraception -- as politicians use women's rights to turn back the clock.  Indeed, it's hard for me to believe that in 2012, we are arguing about whether large employers like hospitals and universities should be exempt on religious grounds from a requirement to provide contraceptive coverage as a basic element of a woman's health-benefits package.  It's even harder for me to believe that a Congressional panel on the topic of contraception invited five men to testify, and excluded the only female witness from speaking.  Meanwhile, violence against women in our country continue to persist at a startling rate - one in four women has been a victim of severe physical violence by an intimate partner in her lifetime.  Clearly, we need to better understand ways to protect and empower women and girls. Today, women still bear the brunt of poverty, war, and famine globally. That is why I support the first-ever U.S. National Action Plan on Women, Peace, and Security, proposed by President Obama in December 2011, that prescribes specific ways to empower half the world's population as equal partners in preventing conflict and building peace.  In honor of Women's History Month, join me in celebrating the accomplishments of great women around the world and supporting the next generation of female leaders. 
 I applaud President Obama for making history today as the first sitting President to support full marriage equality.  Without question his words today will shape the course of equality for generations to come.  I am proud of the President for his courage in taking this historic step on the path of justice and equal rights - and I walk proudly with him to make our dream of equality a reality. 
 I am pleased the U.S. Department of Education has granted Washington state a waiver from provisions in the No Child Left Behind law.  NCLB's one-size-fits-all approach has not fit well with the reforms we, in Washington state, believe are needed for high standards and accountability.  By returning many education decisions to the state and local levels, the waiver will allow Washington state educators to better meet the individualized needs of our students and ensure they have the critical skills and knowledge to succeed upon graduation. 
As we mark Equal Pay Day, I applaud President Obama's executive actions today to help combat pay discrimination and strengthen enforcement of equal pay laws for women. The President is signing an executive order prohibiting federal contractors from retaliating against employees who discuss their pay with each other.  The President is also instructing the Labor Department to establish new regulations requiring federal contractors to submit compensation data paid to their employees, including data by sex and race.
Equal pay for equal work has been one of my top priorities dating back to the women's movement when I served on the Board of the Ms. Foundation for Women. I have worked with Gloria Steinem, Eleanor Smeal, Patsy Mink and many other women pioneers in the women's movement to highlight issues affecting working women, and to create and support public policy for equal treatment for all women.
Even with President Obama's executive action's today and enactment of the Lilly Ledbetter Act in 2009, there's still more work to do in Congress. We should pledge to advance the When Women Succeed, America Succeeds: An Economic Agenda for Women and Families unveiled last year by House Democrats. This economic agenda includes key women's issues like fair pay, work and family balance and childcare. The Paycheck Fairness Act is a critical component of When Women Succeed, America Succeeds.  It is time to pass this long-overdue legislation to ensure equal pay for women in the workplace. The Paycheck Fairness Act would modernize the landmark Equal Pay Act by providing effective remedies to women who are not being paid equal wages for doing equal work.
Equal pay is not a woman's issue - it's a family issue. Today, American families increasingly rely on women's wages to make ends meet. To some, 23 cents on the dollar pay gap may seem small, but for the average American woman, this disparity amounts to lost income each year - income that could be used for food, clothes, rent and other basic necessities. I will continue to fight for fairness and equality for women in California and across America.
Unemployment insurance is a critical lifeline for millions of families. In 2012, it kept 2.5 million people above the poverty line, including 600,000 children. Since Republicans let the program expire just three days after Christmas - more than 2 million Americans, including nearly 340,000 here in California, have been deprived of the support they need to get back on their feet. Recently, I spoke at a community rally in Los Angeles, hosted by a coalition of labor unions and community organizations, calling on Congressional Republicans to extend Federal unemployment insurance benefits. I will continue to urge my Republican colleagues to stop playing politics with this critical lifeline and act immediately to extend unemployment insurance. Every one of us has felt the pain of losing a job. Whether it's a spouse, friend or relative - we all know someone who - in the last few years - has fallen on hard times. And we all know the enormous strain, stress and heartache experienced by those families unsure of where their next paycheck is coming from. A large number of those who are unable to find work require new skills for the new economy. And it is our obligation to give them a boost while they refine those skills and identify new career opportunities.
The budget, released last week by Congressman Paul Ryan, would eliminate nearly $11 billion in resources for small businesses, such as the promotion of trade and other support services, as well as $12 billion in loans from the Small Business Administration that provide owners with financing that would in many instances have otherwise been unavailable. Economists have estimated that these budget reductions would result in the loss of several hundred thousand jobs.
"The owners of small business have an important position in our communities - creating most of our jobs and providing goods and services that contribute to the culture of each neighborhood in our nation and, particularly, in Brooklyn. For generations, small business owners have applied their skills and, with hard work, started their pursuit of the American Dream," said Congresswoman Clarke, who as a member of the Small Business Committee in the House of Representatives has worked to increase loans to small businesses owned by women and people of color.
"I am disappointed that even as some of my colleagues in Congress are trying to eliminate programs to assist small business owners, they have continued to support enormous subsidies for multi-national corporations and lower taxes for the richest Americans. I believe instead that we will rebuild our economy only when we support the entrepreneurs who are creating jobs in every community in the United States."
In many instances, women and people of color are not aware of pay discrimination, because companies refuse to allow workers to discuss their compensation with each other. These executive orders will, first, prohibit federal contractors from retaliating against workers who choose to discuss their compensation, and, second, require these companies to provide information to the Department of Labor on compensation by sex and race.
"Despite the enactment of laws that prohibit discrimination in pay, substantial disparities persist which demonstrate that discrimination has continued in many companies," said Congresswoman Clarke, who was an original co-sponsor of the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act of 2009, which allows victims to file a lawsuit based on each instance of pay discrimination rather than only the initial instance. "Often, it has been extremely difficult for the victims of pay discrimination to know their situation. I believe that these executive orders will establish that companies have a responsibility to pay each of their workers a fair wage, not based on their sex or their race."
The problem of pay discrimination persists in our economy - women are paid only eighty percent as much as men, African-American workers only seventy-four percent as much as white workers, and Latino workers only sixty-four percent as non-Latino workers -and has actually become worse in recent years. Discrimination in pay has been illegal since 1866 when based on race and since 1963 when based on sex, but these laws have seldom been enforced until recently.
Despite assurances by the federal government that it would focus its immigration enforcement efforts on "criminals," about two-thirds of the people deported were not alleged to have committed any serious violation of the law. In addition, an increasing number of men and women have been removed from the United States in an expedited procedure that does not allow an opportunity to appeal the decision.
"This study only confirms the experiences of people in communities around the United States who watched as their neighbors and members of their family were deported for minor infractions, such as violations of traffic rules. We could not reasonably describe a person who has incurred a parking ticket as a 'criminal.' Yet the federal government has applied a policy of deportation that absurdly defines such men and women as criminals," said Congresswoman Clarke, who with several of her colleagues has asked President Obama to suspend deportations until the enactment of comprehensive immigration reform, which would allow many of the 11.5 million Americans without legal status to remain in the United States as permanent residents and, eventually, as citizens.
"The continued deportation of hundreds of thousands of people every year imposes serious harms on the families from which men and women are removed, as well as on the community as a whole, without any benefit to our society. Who could imagine that the removal of a father or mother from their children - for the 'crime' of violating traffic regulations - would not undermine the faith of those children in the due process of law or the good sense of their representatives in government? I remain committed to the suspension of deportation, and to a policy of immigration reform that recognize the value of families." 
"These programs account for only a small percentage of the federal budget. Yet their rewards are enormous- for children who want to learn and adults who want to share in celebration of the diversity of our culture," said Congresswoman Clarke. "As a child in Brooklyn, I had the opportunity to experience the extraordinary cultural institutions of Brooklyn. I believe that we have a responsibility to provide the same opportunities to the young men and young women of today, and for the generations that will follow us."
Today, the NEA announced grants for several institutions in Brooklyn: Kyo-Shin-An Arts Inc., La Troupe Makandal, Inc., Make Music New York Inc., Music Forward, and Tri-Centric Foundation. These grants will support programs such as a showcase of Haitian art, a celebration of musician Frisner Augustin, a performance of "The Classical Style," a semi-staged comic opera, Make Music Winter, an annual day of musical parades, residencies in Japanese music, and a celebration of jazz musician Anthony Braxton's legacy.
The disparities that exist in health care create serious problems - for example, African-Americans account for disproportionate percentage of AIDS infections, elderly African-Americans are less likely to receive a flu shot, and African-American mothers have less access to pre-natal services. In many instances, even a small investment has the potential to prevent serious health problems and the substantial costs that occur as a result.
The letter, sent to Chairman Jack Kingston and Ranking Member Rosa de Lauro of the Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies, requests $65 million for the Office of Minority Health and $268 million for the Institute on Minority Health and Health Disparities, to identify disparities and determine cost-effective solutions, $30 million for the Minority Centers of Excellence, $21 million for the Health Careers Opportunity Program, $65 million for the Strengthening Historically Black Graduate Institutions, and $75 million for Area Health Education Centers, which support underrepresented minorities who want to enter the health professions, $50 million for the Centers for Disease Control Racial and Ethnic Approaches to Community Health program, which develops community-based intervention programs.
"The costs imposed by inadequate investment in basic health care services - such as flu shots, screenings for diabetes and cancer, and the preventions of sexually transmitted diseases - are enormous, both on our health care expenditures and, more important, on our quality of life," said Congresswoman Clarke, who has worked in the House of Representatives to increase access to preventative services in the United States and around the world.
"If we provide adequate support for programs that have been demonstrated to reduce the disparities that now exist in access to health care, we will increase both our life expectancy and our quality of life as instances of chronic disease are reduced."
"The enthusiasm of people in states across the country has become obvious in recent weeks, as millions of Americans have learned that the Affordable Care Act offers comprehensive health insurance at a reasonable cost, without restrictions based on pre-existing conditions or discrimination toward women. In effect, Americans have come to learn that the Affordable Care Act offers a fair deal. I am proud to have voted for the Affordable Care Act, and to have voted to protect the law. As we continue the implementation of the health care law, I intend to work with my colleagues - both Democrats and Republicans - to update its provisions and to improve the quality of service.
"These enrollment numbers demonstrate that our parents were correct - without struggle, there is no progress . In the states that worked with the federal government, such as New York, California, and Kentucky, enrollment in health insurance marketplaces actually exceeded estimates by a substantial amount. And millions more Americans were enrolled in Medicaid in the states that chose to expand access to Medicaid by increasing income limits.
"In the states that refused to work with the federal government, however, the experience was entirely to the contrary - millions of eligible women and men who lack health insurance did not enroll in an affordable plan because even basic information was unavailable, and misinformation proliferated.
"It is my hope that, as more people learn about the benefits of expanded access to health care insurance in the states that have worked with - rather than in opposition to - the federal government, the people in states that have not cooperated in implementing the Affordable Care Act will demand that their elected officials support the desires of the people they represent and work with the Department of Health and Human Services to allow every American to purchase comprehensive health insurance."
"There were parts of this bill that I agreed with, such as the technical corrections to the long-term care hospital (LTCH) criteria which Brooklyn hospitals needed," said Congresswoman Clarke. Previously, in order to qualify as a long-term care hospital, overall  Medicare discharges had to not only meet certain pre-discharge qualifications, but also be 50 % of the overall number of  hospital discharges.  While still requiring that 50% of the Medicare discharges meet certain pre-discharge qualifications, the technical correction would require those discharges be compared to the overall number of Medicare discharges and not the overall number of hospital discharges. 
"I am concerned, however, that the extension of the 'two-midnight rule,' and the suspension of audits for those short-stay inpatient claims could have adverse impacts on hospitals. The delay in implementing changes to the 'two-midnight rule' and in initiating audits of such claims has cost taxpayers billions of dollars."   Under the two-midnight rule, in order for patients to receive "inpatient status," they must spend at least "two-midnights" in the hospital, otherwise they are considered "outpatients".  Inpatient costs are higher than outpatient costs. This arbitrary rule has forced doctors to make admitting decisions, not necessarily based on the needs of their patients, but rather on the rule.  Additionally, because inpatient costs are higher than outpatient costs, the cost to taxpayers has increased.  I am also concerned that reductions in payments to medical service providers will only remove needed funds from our hospitals and other medical facilities. This makes no sense. "
Congresswoman Clarke continued, "I hope that we will ultimately resolve the deficiencies in the 'doc fix.' Patients need to have access to quality, affordable healthcare - which means that they need access to highly skilled and qualified doctors."
"I would like to thank the National Network for Arab American Communities and South Asian Americans Leading Together for holding this briefing and it is my pleasure to join my colleagues on speaking on this very important issue.  This is important to us because the problem we are talking about - ending racial and religious profiling -continues to threaten our communities and violate our civil rights.
"A report by the New York Civil Liberties Union revealed that innocent New Yorkers were stopped by police and interrogated on the street more than four million times since 2002, and that black and Latino communities continue to be the overwhelming target of these tactics. Nearly 9 out of 10 stopped-and-frisked New Yorkers have been completely innocent, according to the NYPD's reports.
"In my New York District, under the guise of crime prevention, the Police Department has conducted investigations on multiple mosques, dozens of Islamic schools, Muslim student organizations, non-profit organizations, 'persons of interest' and locations they labelled as 'ethnic hotspots'.
"Our Constitution establishes that individuals are presumed innocent. The practice of conducting searches of young African-American and Latino men on the sidewalk, and the warrantless surveillance of Muslims gathered for study in schools and prayer in mosques, undermines our civil society's moral commitment to the personal privacy and dignity of each person.
"While we have taken certain steps recently to curtail these programs, it is unfortunate that today we fear those trusted to serve and protect us. We worry that our children will be harassed on their way to school, coming home from a basketball game, riding the train, going to the corner store or even standing outside of their homes. Young people of color are under threat; continuously fearful that they will be searched next, or that an officer will demand proof of ID and innocence whenever they desire, regardless of the circumstances.
"It is akin to living under apartheid South Africa. It is a national embarrassment. We most certainly have to address the issue of crime prevention in NY and in cities around the nation, but profiling, criminalizing and creating further distrust between police and the community profiling is by no means the answer. We must continue to speak out, and I will continue to push to garner more resources for activists and leaders who are fighting to put an end to discriminatory practices such as racial and religious profiling."
Hobby Lobby and Conestoga Wood Specialties want to prevent women from purchasing health insurance plans that provide reproductive health care, such as birth control pills and other forms of contraception. Under the Affordable Care Act, unless they meet certain exemptions, employers must provide reproductive health care as part of health insurance plans for their employees.
"Let us be clear: these lawsuits involve only the issue of whether women have the right to purchase a health insurance plan that includes reproductive health services. Under the Affordable Care Act, businesses are required to pay for such services, unless they meet certain exemptions," said Congresswoman Clarke, who with ninety-three of her colleagues in Congress, filed an amicus brief in January urging the Supreme Court to uphold the right of women to purchase health insurance that includes reproductive health care.
Congresswoman Clarke continued: "These cases involve control. Will women have the right to control their health care decisions? Or will employers have the right to control the health care decisions of their employees?"
"I am proud to join in urging Speaker Boehner to bring up the bipartisan, Senate-passed Unemployment Insurance extension bill for a vote this week.
We need a vote for more than 2.36 million Americans who have lost their long term unemployment benefits, including 153,400 Illinoisans."
We need a vote for people like Joseph from Chicago, who says, 'The unemployment benefit is my lifeline.  It means that I put food on the table, have a roof over my head, and pay for phone/internet that I need to continue my job search.
We need a vote for Jennie from Morton Grove, in my district, who says, 'I am not going to be able to afford the house that I have, pay my bills, make sure my kids are fed, keep my vehicle...I need this money to survive.'"
And for the women from Belleville who wrote, 'We had to sell our home of 23 years so we wouldn't lose it.  We now live in a used mobile home.  I'm 56 years old and nobody wants me anymore.  I fill out applications every day online but never hear anything.'"
Passing this bill will help these families avoid financial disaster - and it will restore $300 million lost to my state's economy over the past three months alone."
It's time for a vote. We must not go home for two weeks without getting the job done."
"I am deeply disappointed in the majority's decision further entrenching the bloated role money and large donors play in our elections.   Much like their other ill-conceived ruling in Citizens United v. FEC, five justices on the Supreme Court have handed enormous influence to the ultra-wealthy at the expense of millions of everyday Americans.    
The removal of aggregate limits on campaign contributions - that is, contributions over $123,200 per campaign cycle, does nothing to make our government more accountable or responsive to the American people.  The vast majority - 85% - of American households don't earn $123,000 total for an entire year's labor.   Instead, this decision helps one group and one group only: the affluent 1% who think nothing of spending hundreds of thousands of dollars to influence elections all over the country. 
Money needs to play a smaller role in politics - not larger.  Allowing the dollars of a privileged few to play an even bigger role will only further dilute the ability of millions of Americans to have their concerns heard.  
Our democracy must be about the many, not the money.  I will continue to strongly support legislative initiatives like H.R. 20, the Government By the People Act, a bill that would amplify the impact of everyday citizens contributing to campaigns, and I will continue to take whatever steps I can to reverse these harmful decisions and restore American democracy for its citizens.
"The fact that 13 people lost their lives is extremely tragic, and it is even more painful because these deaths were avoidable.
"GM made the decision to continue the use of a faulty ignition switch that did not meet its own specifications - a part that costs 57 cents.  I am outraged that proposed solutions to the problem that could have prevented needless deaths were rejected for not presenting 'anacceptable business case.'
"The untold number of injured and the families of the 13 victims who died as a result of GM's failure deserved better.  They deserved the peace of mind that they and their loved ones would be protected with adequate safety and engineering features.  GM failed them, as did the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, which missed opportunities to call for an earlier recall. 
"An outstanding question is whether GM will take full responsibility for allowing this tragedy to occur.  The company has yet to fire any of its senior employees that approved the use of faulty switches in GM vehicles or explain what it will do for the victims who were injured and the families of those killed in GM cars. 
"Yesterday, I joined with Rep. Waxman in introducing the Motor Vehicle Safety Act, legislation to improve the quality and quantity of information shared with NHTSA and the public, which could help to prevent a similar tragedy in the future.  I will work to see it passed through the Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade, on which I serve as the ranking Democrat.
"In the meantime, I will continue to work to hold the top level executives at GM accountable, to ensure that GM does right by the victims and their families, and to ensure that this tragedy is never repeated."
"Yesterday I supported the two Ukrainian aid bills voted on in the House of Representatives.  I strongly support the Ukrainian people and their right to self-governance, and I believe that the United States must continue taking an active role in this ongoing situation. 
These bills - passed with strong bipartisan majorities in both the House and Senate - provide the Ukrainian people with the tools they need to keep their civic institutions functioning and avoid a disastrous default in the lead-up to their May 2014 elections.   At the same time, the legislation will impose strong sanctions on those who would undermine the Ukrainian people and their democratic process.  
I am pleased to see the House of Representatives act in such a strong, bipartisan fashion on this issue, and I hope to see further cooperation on other important priorities in the future."
More than seven million Americans have enrolled in private plans. Millions more have enrolled through their parents' plans or through Medicaid. Of these millions of Americans, many are now insured for first time, finally getting the coverage they need. This is truly a monumental accomplishment.
We have reached these goals despite massive Republican efforts, including those from people like the Koch Brothers, spending millions of dollars to misinform people about Obamacare.
With Obamacare in place, no American, including 5.6 million Illinoisans, can ever again be denied coverage because they have a pre-existing condition. In Illinois, 125,000 young adults, under the age of 26, can now stay on their parents' health plans. The unemployed, at their most vulnerable point, have a viable option for affordable coverage so they could get the care they need to survive injury or illness, without being bankrupted by medical bills.
Just over a week ago in Chicago, I joined with Get Covered America and Get Covered Illinois to host a 4th birthday for Obamacare. The most moving moments in our celebration were the speeches of the following three enrollees:
William Zars, a former photographer for the Daily Herald had a heart attack and then during surgery had a massive stroke which blinded him in both eyes. He lost his job and later his wife, who also worked for the Herald, lost her job as well. Yet he was able to enroll in health insurance under the ACA; he has secured better coverage than he had before and is thrilled to have his new plan.
Dywaine Betts is a career development counselor for a re-entry program for formerly incarcerated men. He was hesitant to enroll at first because he didn't think he could afford good health insurance.  But, he signed up and now pays $190/month for his plan. He understands the importance of coverage because years ago he faced high medical bills from a bout with appendicitis, when he was uninsured. Since signing up he has been sharing the information with others, including many of the men he counsels, who are around his age.
Erin McDonald has Type 1 Diabetes, was uninsured and scared when she had to get off of her father's plan when she turned 26. But she has enrolled in coverage and is very happy with her plan. She wrote a letter to the editor that was in the Chicago Tribune in February and won a contest for a video about Obamacare.
These are three success stories out of millions. I am so glad we live in a country that is truly prioritizing the health of all of its citizens. I will continue to work with anyone who is devoted to helping as many Americans as possible enjoy healthy lives.
If budgets are all about priorities, the Ryan Republican budget's priorities are all wrong.    
Think we need to prevent carbon pollution?  The Ryan Republican budget reduces spending to address global warming, makes funding cuts to clean energy technologies and approves the environmentally-dangerous Keystone XL pipeline.
Care about Medicare and Medicaid?  The Ryan Republican budget turns Medicare into a voucher program, cuts $129 billion, eliminates free preventive services, and reopens the donut hole gap in coverage. Medicaid is turned into a block grant and cut by more than $1.5 trillion - threatening everything from health care for children to long-term care for seniors and people with disabilities. 
Want affordable health care?  The Ryan Republican budget eliminates Obamacare's tax credits to help individuals and small businesses purchase coverage, lets insurance companies set caps on the amount of annual and lifetime benefits they pay, and goes back to the days when people with pre-existing conditions are excluded and women are charged more.
Want to provide education opportunities?  The Ryan Republican budget cuts college Pell Grants - calling them "promises that cannot be kept."
Think we should feed the hungry?  The Ryan Republican budget would cut the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) - the nation's best anti-hunger program, formerly called food stamps- by $125 billion.  More than 60 percent of all SNAP beneficiaries are children, seniors, or disabled. 
Support the arts?  The Ryan Republican budget zeroes out funding for National Endowment for the Arts, National Endowment for the Humanities, the Corporation for Public Broadcasting and museums.
Of course, not everyone loses in the Ryan Republican budget - the winners are the richest Americans and most profitable corporations.  Both would see their top tax rates drop to 25 percent - increasing income inequality and wealth disparities that are already at levels not seen since the 1920s.
This must be a cruel April Fool's Day Joke.
There could not be a starker contrast between the Republican Party's priorities and the priorities of the American people.  There is a better way forward to create opportunity and an economy that works for everyone through investments in education, job creation, clean energy, health care and retirement security. 
"In 2002, a 2-year old named Cameron Gulbransen was tragically killed when his father unknowingly backed over him in front of his home.  Hearing about Cameron's death - and the fact that more than 200 preventable deaths occur each year due to a massive blind spot behind most vehicles - was heartbreaking.  Over the next few years, I worked with Rep. Peter King, the parents of victims, and organizations including  Consumers Union, Kids and Cars, Public Citizen and Advocates for Highway and Auto Safety to pass legislation that would prevent backover tragedies in the future. 
"In 2008, the Cameron Gulbranson Kids Transportation Safety Act - which I introduced - was signed into law by President Bush.  The legislation required expanded rear visibility to reduce unintended backovers.  After extensive analysis, NHTSA came to the realization that the only way to guarantee the expanded rear visibility my bill required in the near-term was through the use of rear visibility cameras. 
"We understood the problem.  We recognized the terrible cost of life.  We knew how to fix it.  Today, NHTSA made sure that auto makers will do just that.
"We can now celebrate a final rule that will prevent future tragic deaths, and I am glad that we are moving toward a point when no parent will have to suffer the trauma of losing their child because they can't see behind their car.  However, I am deeply concerned that it will be 10 years between the passage of the law and a final rule, and I urge auto makers to act voluntarily to save hundreds of lives by meeting the standard before 2018." 
"I am pleased with the NLRB ruling that correctly recognizes Northwestern football players as University employees.  These young men dedicate 40-plus hours a week for much of the school year to the football program and they deserve the right to unionize.
"College football players have brought in billions of dollars for universities across the country, and in many cases their athletic responsibilities limit the classes they can take and their scholarships only extend as long as they are physically able to perform.  I am particularly concerned about the health implications of college sports.  As the dispute over medical bills resulting from Kain Colter's ankle injury highlight, athletes are not guaranteed healthcare coverage for injuries sustained due to collegiate athletic competition - including those associated with long-term impacts.
"Northwestern is a model for ensuring that its athletes can succeed both on the field and in the classroom, with a 97 percent graduation rate that ranks the highest in the country among Division I programs.  However, as Tim Waters, national political director for the United Steelworkers said yesterday, 'just because they're a good employer doesn't mean they're not an employer.' 
"I'm proud that these young men are standing up and demanding a right to negotiate with the University.  I hope that their success can be replicated across the country."
Yesterday, the EPA and Army Corps of Engineers proposed a new rule to protect the waters of the United States.  The rule would make clear that the EPA and the Army Corps have the authority and responsibility to protect smaller bodies of water from harmful pollution - an authority which had come into question due to recent interpretations of Supreme Court rulings.  U.S. Representatives Jan Schakowsky (IL-09), Mike Quigley (IL-05), Luis Gutierrez (IL-04), and Brad Schneider (IL-10) released the following statement on the proposed rule:
"As members of Congress, we often hear from our constituents how important it is that Lake Michigan, the Mississippi, and all Illinois waterways are clean and protected.  We applaud the EPA and Army Corps' proposed rule clarifying their authority to protect smaller bodies of water from harmful pollution. 
"Millions of Illinoisans drink Lake Michigan water and spend the summers in the lake or on its shores.  We must ensure that our waterways - including wetlands and small tributaries - are free of harmful pollutants that could make their way into our drinking or recreational water sources.
"Passage of the Clean Water Act 40 years ago was one of the most important and popular environmental protections in our history, creating a legacy of cleaner water in the United States.  Today's proposed rule would ensure that legacy continues.  We commend the EPA and the Army Corps for taking this action and will continue to support the agencies in their efforts to protect public health and the environment."
"I am incredibly concerned about the news of the Whiting tar sands oil spill and its possible impact on Lake Michigan, my constituents, and millions of other Chicagoans.  Lake Michigan supplies drinking water for seven million Chicagoans, and it provides summer entertainment for swimmers, boaters, and beach goers.  It is a truly irreplaceable resource, and the recent spill could jeopardize public health and the environment. 
"I have expressed serious concerns about the Whiting refinery dating back to 2008 when it expanded operations.  The refining of Alberta tar sands at the plant results in 17 percent more pollution than conventional oil, and it also results in high levels of petroleum coke byproduct that has built up on the South Side of Chicago.  This spill suggests yet another reason that tar sands are wrong for our country and a threat to public health and our environment.  
"Moving forward, I will continue to follow this situation closely, take any steps necessary to protect the waters of Lake Michigan, hold BP accountable for its actions, and ensure that this type of accident never happens again."
"Today I voted against passage of H.R. 3826, a bill that would prevent the EPA from meaningfully regulating pollution from power plants - the country's single biggest emitter of carbon pollution.  At a time when sea levels are rapidly rising and severe drought, wildfires, and hurricanes are happening with increasing frequency around the country, we owe it to future generations to take strong action against climate change. 
The Republican majority has not only refused to take Congressional action, with this legislation it would prevent the EPA from using its clear authority under the Clean Air Act to curb pollution.  We cannot afford to stand by as the world warms - perhaps irreversibly - before our eyes.  We certainly cannot undermine federal agencies that are taking responsible action.  Fortunately, the Senate has no plans to consider the bill and the White House has issued a veto threat, so it has no chance of becoming law."
"There is still time to take action on climate change, but it requires an acceptance of the facts.  I offered an amendment to the bill which would have acknowledged the scientific fact that 'greenhouse gas pollution is contributing to long-lasting changes in our climate that can have a range of negative effects.'  Only three Republicans crossed party lines to support my amendment.  As I said to my Congressional colleagues, history will not be kind to climate change deniers.  I will continue to push for Congressional action to combat climate change and to support the EPA's authority to protect public health and the environment."
"My District has been hit by a series of so-called '100-year floods', which have damaged the homes of many residents. Similar storms have impacted families all across our country.  To address this issue, I was proud to vote for the Homeowner Flood Insurance Affordability Act, which passed the House yesterday.
This legislation provides refunds to homeowners who have faced excessive premium changes; protects against catastrophic rate increases due to remapping of flood zones; reduces annual flood insurance rate increases; and clarifies coverage information for policyholders.  It also protects small businesses, non-profits, and houses of worship against unmanageable rate increases."
"This bipartisan bill - which I cosponsored - is a clear example of how Congress can work together to address major issues facing our constituents.  The Homeowner Flood Insurance Affordability Act will truly help homeowners to maintain economic security, even in extremely rainy weather."
"President Obama's budget request is focused on investing in an American economy that works for us all. This budget invests in working Americans and middle class families, creates good jobs, doubles the Earned Income Tax Credit, makes improvements to our infrastructure, supports 21st century manufacturing, and funds early-education and job training.  The President's budget makes these investments while reducing the deficit by raising revenues from millionaires, billionaires, and corporations that are not paying their fair share.
The President's budget would restore unemployment compensation to the long-term unemployed who are struggling to find work and to make ends meet.  Due to Congress's inaction more than 2 million Americans (including more than 112,000 Illinoisans) have lost long-term unemployment insurance benefits.
"His budget also takes common-sense, long overdue steps that will boost our economy:  increasing the federal minimum wage and moving forward with comprehensive immigration reform.
These proposals would truly help Americans succeed and build an economy that works for everyone.  Congress should embrace them and expand opportunities for all Americans."
"I am very thankful that President Barack Obama has named March 2014 National Colorectal Cancer Awareness Month. All types of cancer continue to claim too many lives in our country and around the world. In the U.S., colorectal cancer is projected to claim 50,310 lives this year.
"Raising awareness about colorectal cancer, and providing tips on prevention and early detection are extremely meaningful actions that will help save lives. I also strongly believe that we must honor the lives that have been lost to colorectal cancer. This particular disease hits home for my family. My daughter-in-law passed away after being diagnosed with colorectal cancer. Many families, like mine, have felt this type of pain. With efforts to raise awareness throughout this month I believe that fewer people and their families will have to suffer from colorectal cancer in the future."
"I am pleased that the EPA has finalized these critical standards that will require improved vehicle emissions and reduce the sulfur content of gasoline.  I was a strong advocate for the EPA's proposed standard, which was almost identical to the one finalized today.  Currently, 30 to 45 percent of Americans face near constant exposure to traffic-related air pollutants like nitrogen oxides, particulate matter, carbon monoxide, and cancer-causing agents such as benzene.
"The Tier 3 Standards will provide the equivalent emissions reduction of removing 33 million cars from American roads, vastly improving our air quality.  By 2030, the Standards will result in almost 20,000 fewer asthma attacks, 1.4 million fewer lost school and work days, and prevent up to 2,200 deaths each year - all for a cost of less than a penny per gallon.  The American people can depend on their EPA to fulfill its role of protecting public health and the environment, and I will continue to work to ensure that the EPA has the resources it needs to do its important work."