The Senate, I am learning, is an institution bound by tradition and precedent.  One of the time-honored and worthwhile traditions in this body is that new senators are, for at least the first few months of their service, are to be essentially seen and not heard until they deliver their “maiden speeches” on the Senate floor.   This, Mr. President, I am doing today.

As an aside, in the same vein of new senators traditionally not being heard but seen, I may have been well advised for the first few months to avoid the throngs of reporters who congregate outside of this chamber, but it’s too late for that.  Politicians, after all, can only heed so much advice.

For the past 12 years, it was my privilege to serve in the House of Representatives, a body that has its own traditions and precedents.  At its core, the House is governed by the concept of majority rule.  One party can have a majority of only one or two and, by virtue of the rules, can maintain control of that chamber.  During my time in the House, I had the experience of being in both the majority and in the minority.  All things equal, I preferred the former, but I understood that the power wielded by being in the majority is fleeting.  That is as it should be.

The Senate, on the other hand, is a body governed by consensus.  The party holding the gavel is on a short leash.  Bringing even the most non-controversial resolutions to the Senate floor requires the agreement, or at least the acquiescence of the minority party. Over the past decade, both parties have chaffed under these arrangements.  Both parties have at times considered changing the rules that would in some measure make the Senate more like the House.  Both parties have wisely reconsidered.  The House has rules appropriate for the House.  The rules of the Senate, however frustrating to the party that happens to wield the gavel, are appropriate for the Senate.

I come to this point with great appreciation for those Arizona senators who have preceded me.  The 48th state in the union, Arizona celebrated its centennial just last year.  Prior to my swearing in this year, Arizona had sent just 10 senators to this body.  These Arizonans who came before me have left more of an impression than simply carving their names in these desks.  Few in this body have matched the longevity of Carl Hayden.  Few have had the lasting impact of Barry Goldwater, who helped launch a conservative movement. 

I consider it a high honor to follow in the footsteps of Senator Jon Kyl, whose steady, principled leadership shaped Arizona for the better and made our nation stronger, and more secure.  My constituents now call the same telephone number I answered as an intern for Senator Dennis DeConcini.  He taught me a great deal about constituent service.

And now I have the incredible honor to serve with Senator John McCain, who as a prisoner of war taught us all the meaning of sacrifice.  Since that time, he has served Arizona, the country, and the Senate nobly and honorably.  Fortunately for all of us, his service to this institution continues.  It is my great privilege to serve with him.

The challenges America faces today are legion and growing.  Abroad, cells of terrorists bent on our destruction continue to incubate.  Some receive aid and comfort from countries with long held grievances and irreconcilable enmity toward the United States. Other terrorists take advantage of failed states and lawless regions to hatch their plans.

But it is not just individual terrorists or terror cells that we have to worry about.  Countries unbound by the norms and conventions of traditional nation-states now threaten the peace.  Today, our concern is primarily focused on Iran and North Korea, but myriad other countries are but one election or coup removed from boiling over into regional and international instability.

Here at home, our fiscal situation is dire.  We continue to spend considerably more than we take in.  Worse yet, we have no serious plan to remedy the problem in any structural way.  We seem to endlessly lurch from cliff to crisis and back again, with fiscal high wire acts that erode the confidence of markets and invite the distain of our constituents.

It is understandable that with two-year election cycles, the House of Representatives begins to focus on the next election as soon as one election season is finished.  In the House, difficult issues are often avoided or perpetually shelved until the next election. 

But here in the Senate we have six-year terms.  Senators, therefore, should come with an added dose of courage to take up the thorny and vexing issues on which the other chamber takes a pass.  It is our responsibility to lead, and if there was ever a time for this body, this chamber, the United States Senate, to lead, this is it.

I am a proud and unapologetic conservative, and a Republican, and I hope my votes will consistently reflect that philosophy.   So I am not suggesting that we hold hands and agree on every issue, or even most issues.  There are profound and meaningful differences between the parties.  But I want to spend more time exercising my franchise while debating the legislation itself, and less time on deciding whether such legislation should be debated on the Senate floor. 

There is a time and a place for using supermajority rules to block legislation and/or nominees from coming to the Senate floor.  There is a time and place for partisanship.  But not every time, and not every place.

This country yearns for a functioning Senate, a Senate that recognizes the gravity of our fiscal situation and its responsibility to propose and adopt measures to solve it for the long term.   This country yearns for a Senate that exercises its prerogative as part of the first branch of government, to rein in executive branch excesses in both domestic and foreign affairs.  

Domestically, the parade of missteps and abuses at the IRS and other federal agencies stand as exhibit A of the need for more robust legislative direction and oversight.  Recent presidents both Republican and Democratic have exercised authority in the foreign arena far beyond that contemplated for a commander in chief, often obligating future congresses to financial commitments far beyond security arrangements.   A better functioning Senate, less distracted by games of shirts and skins, would not countenance such theft of its authority.

Now is not the time, Madam President, for this institution to retreat into irrelevance, where the sum of our influence is to sign off on another continuing resolution to fund the government for another six months.  Where success is measured by how well our tracks are covered when the debt ceiling is raised.  Where prioritizing spending cuts are avoided by invoking another sequester.  No, we’ve been there, done that.  It’s time now for the Senate to lead. 

There are encouraging signs that we may be moving in this direction.  Earlier this year, a budget was passed by this chamber.  It wasn’t a budget that I perferred, but I was given ample opportunity to offer and debate amendments to that legislation, as were my Republican colleagues.  We came up short.  But at least the Senate got back to regular order.

In the coming weeks this body will consider an immigration bill.  Immigration reform has been and remains a complex and vexing issue with members holding strong and discordant views on many of its facets.  Still, the bill, having had a thorough vetting in committee, will be allowed to come to the Senate floor to be debated, amended, and hopefully improved upon.  This is the way it should work. 

To conclude, Madam President, a few days after last November’s election, the twelve newly elected Senate freshmen were invited to the National Archives.  We were taken to the legislative vault where we viewed the original, signed copy of the first bill enacted by Congress, as well as other landmark pieces of legislation and memorabilia.  Oaths of allegiance signed by Revolutionary War soldiers, witnessed by General Washington, documents and artifacts related to the civil war, segregation and women’s suffrage were also on hand.

It was an affirmation to me of the tumultuous seas through which our ship of state has sailed for more than 200 years.  We have had many brilliant and inspired individuals at the helm, and trimming the sails along the way.  We’ve also had personalities ranging from mediocre to malevolent.   But our system of government has survived them all.

Serious challenges lie ahead, but any honest reckoning of our history and our prospects will note that we have confronted and survived more daunting challenges than we now face.  This is a durable, resilient system of government, designed to withstand the foibles of men, including yours truly.

Madam President, it is the honor of a lifetime just to be here in this storied institution – more than I could have ever hoped for.  My modest hope going forward is that my contributions will in some small way honor the Senate’s storied past and help it realize its full potential as the world’s most deliberative body.

Thank you. I yield the floor.
###
I take the floor today to speak in support of the Hoeven-Corker amendment that will soon be filed. Let me just say that the goal of the so called “Gang of Eight” has always been to bring forward, from Congress, a solution to our broken immigration system. 
We introduced our bill knowing full well that it would be a starting point for this legislative process. We had, under Senator Leahy and Senator Grassley’s purview, a great markup in the Judiciary Committee. It went on for days. More than 300 amendments filed, more than 100 adopted.

We have had a full-throated debate in this chamber already on this bill. And out of this vetting and this debate that we’ve had, we have had several consistent messages on things that need to be improved in the legislation. And what we’re doing right now, I think, is going a long way to deal with these concerns. 

We have heard that we have allowed too much discretion to write the strategy for the border security plan; we have given too much to the Department of Homeland Security that will simply spend billions of dollars that will be appropriated eventually.

This amendment includes a detailed list of technologies that will have to be put in place by the department. We will set a minimum floor of what they have to do, and then they can go beyond that. We require that a strategy is deployed in the underlying legislation; that an entry-exit system for all airports and seaports be in place; and that E-Verify be up and running for all business in the United States before anyone is granted legal permanent residency.

There are persistent concerns that that still won’t be sufficient to ensure a secure border, that we need more incentive there. This amendment, filed by Senators Hoeven and Corker, will require 700 miles of fence be completed and that we have double the number of border agents that we currently have. These things have to be done before anybody in provisional status adjusts to get a green card. This is important; this amendment dramatically increases the trigger that will have to be met in order for anyone, as I said, who is in provisional status, to adjust to get a green card. This is a product of the ongoing scrutiny that this bill has received; the scrutiny that it deserves. 
We said from the very beginning that this bill deserves debate – due process, through committee and on the floor in this chamber. And it is receiving that today and it is a better bill for it. It is going to be considerably improved particularly after the Hoeven-Corker amendment is introduced and hopefully adopted. 

I hope that in the coming days we’ll also have as much scrutiny on the positive aspects of this bill. State and local governments currently deal with a sizable undocumented population; all of them, particularly in Arizona. Businesses are looking for a legal workforce that they simply don’t have access to right now. Right now the best and the brightest come here, we educate them in our universities, and then we send them home to compete against us because we won’t allow them to stay on a visa. The U.S. economy, overall, could use the boost that will come if we can pass meaningful immigration reform.

Again I support this amendment. I commend my colleagues from Tennessee and North Dakota and all those who are working in the “Gang of Eight” and elsewhere. 
There are some who say that many people are trying to kill this bill and bring poison pill amendments. For the most part what I’ve seen are people who want to improve this legislation, to make it better. To deal with this problem in a way that will solve it for good, so we don’t have to return to this a couple years from now. 

Again, I appreciate my colleagues for offering the amendment. I look forward to discussing it either this weekend or next week.
###
This is the first appropriation bill that we are considering for FY2014. Unfortunately in my view, it gets us off to the wrong foot because of the spending level. The bill spends more than $54 billion. That’s about 5 billion dollars above last year’s spending level and more than $10 billion over the House proposal for this coming fiscal year. 

Considering that our debt stands at over $17 trillion, we ought to be spending less, not more, this year. This bill already takes a larger portion of the total allowable spending compared to last year. 

People will point out that the budget agreement that we agreed to in 2011 simply sets an aggregate number and that we can spend whatever we want in certain appropriation bills as long as the total doesn’t come over $967 billion. 

That is true. But it is impossible – and I can say that with experience in the House and now in the Senate – that if you overspend on the initial appropriation bills that you will somehow cut back in the bills that come later. 

Often the last bill to come up is a defense bill; nobody is going to undercut our troops or spend less in a defense bill, but that would be required if we were to stay under the budget control agreement number. So when we overspend on the initial appropriation bills like this, it simply means one thing: that we are going to bust the budget. 

I can tell you, to have any credibility with the taxpayers, we’ve got to stick to the agreement that was agreed to in 2011. We have so far. We even went through the sequester because we couldn’t come up with an agreement to prioritize spending. 

But now to go over on the first appropriation bill, to go over the spending limit, would not set the right precedent moving ahead into the appropriation bills. 

We’ve simply got to deal with this debt and deficit and this isn’t the way to go. That’s why I support the upcoming motion to recommit that Senator Toomey will offer, that would simply recommit the bill back to the Appropriations Committee and say, “come back with something that fits within the Budget Control Act that is similar to what was spent last year, not overspending by $5 billion.”

I hope that we all pass this motion to recommit. I hope that we all start off on appropriation bills in the Senate on the right foot.
###
Mr. President, I speak today recognizing that I have been a member of this body for just six months and a few days.  I’m hardly an expert on Senate rules, procedures and precedents.  
 
But this much I do know: The rule change that is being considered this week is more far-reaching and significant than has been advertised. This rule change was described this afternoon by the majority leader as “minor change, no big deal.”  
 
It is a big deal, and it has the potential to change this institution in ways that are both hazardous and unforeseen.
 
We will discuss these changes later today as we meet together in the old chamber.
 
It is appropriate that we should meet in the old chamber, which hasn’t been used for official Senate business for around 150 years. It gives added perspective about the gravity of what is being considered.
 
The majority leader noted today that Senate rules have been changed 18 times in the past 36 years by a simple majority vote. There needs to be a qualifier here – a very big qualifier: This rule change will allow, for the first time in Senate history, majority-imposed cloture. This is not minor. This is a big deal.
 
It is said by the advocates that this will only affect the president’s executive branch nominees. That may be true initially, but once a simple majority has been used to impose cloture for executive branch nominees, why can’t it be used to for judicial nominees who have lifetime tenure? Why won’t it be used for everyday legislation?
 
But even in the unlikely event that this rule change remained confined to the president’s executive branch nominees, it would not be a minor change, or one that could be described as “no big deal.”
 
Let me give an example. One that I hope will give some of my colleagues pause as they consider this rule change.
 
Currently under consideration by this body is the president’s nominee to head the Environmental Protection Agency. This agency has broad reach across the country. Its regulatory authority extends to power generation and air quality. A heavy handed approach to these issues in particular has the potential to put a strangle hold on Arizona’s economy.
 
With only 15 percent of Arizona’s land privately owned, EPA’s influence is magnified by the considerable footprint the federal government already has in the state.
 
So, the president’s choice to head the EPA is an important choice, and the Senate’s advice and consent role is vital.
 
After reading some of the media reporting on the president’s pick for this position, I initially had some heartburn. However, after meeting in my office with the president’s nominee, discussing some of the issues unique to Arizona, and receiving assurances that we could, where appropriate, work collaboratively on these issues, I felt comfortable with the president’s choice. On the whole, this has been my experience.
 
Now, if this rule that we are about to consider were in place, would I have received a visit from the president’s nominee? No! I served in the House of Representatives for 12 years. I never once received a visit from one of the president’s nominees during the nomination process.  
 
Why is this? It’s not because Arizona didn’t have issues that needed attention or collaboration, or because these nominees have an aversion to the other chamber. It is because the House has no role in “advice and consent.” This is precisely the position that nearly half of the Senate will be in, in perpetuity, with regard to executive branch nominees by the end of this week if this change occurs. 
 
Mr. President, in my maiden Senate speech just a few months ago, I said the following: 
 
The Senate is a body governed largely by consensus. The party holding the gavel is on a short leash. Bringing even the most non-controversial resolutions to the Senate floor requires the agreement or at least the acquiescence of the minority. Over the past decade both parties wielding the gavel have chafed under this arrangement. Both parties have at times considered changing the rules. Both parties have wisely reconsidered.  The House has rules appropriate for the House. The rules of the Senate, however frustrating to the party that happens to wield the gavel, are appropriate for the Senate.
 
Mr. President, it is my sincere hope that this body can realize its potential, and that whatever behavioral changes need to be made are made within the longstanding rules of the Senate, rules that have served this institution and the country for more than 200 years.
###